# Dr. Mufti Mahmud

Dr Mufti Mahmud is a Professor in the Information and Computer Science Department at King Fahd University of Petroleum and Minerals (KFUPM), Saudi Arabia. Dr Mahmud holds a PhD in Information Engineering (Bioengineering Curriculum) from the University of Padova, Italy. He received a First Class BSc in Computer Science from the University of Madras (India) and an MSc in Computer Science from the University of Mysore (India) with Distinction. He then pursued an MS in Nano and Micro Electromechanical Systems (NEMS/MEMS) at the University of Trento, Italy.
With over 20 years of experience in academia and industry in the UK, Italy, Belgium, Bangladesh, and India, Dr Mahmud has held several leadership positions, including a member of the University Shadow Executive Team at Nottingham Trent University (NTU), UK, Coordinator of the Computer Science and Informatics (B11) Unit of Assessment for the Research Excellence Framework at NTU, research group leader of the Cognitive Computing and Brain Informatics research group, and deputy research group leader of the Interactive Systems Research Group at NTU, fellow of the Medical Technologies Innovation Facility at NTU, and a member of the NTU Distance Learning Governance, Operation, and Steering Committee, as well as the International Mobility Committee.
Dr Mahmud has (co-)authored over 350 peer-reviewed research outputs in journals, conferences, and books. According to Scopus (as of 28 Oct. 2024), he is the topmost academic in the East Midlands region of the UK in terms of the number of publications. His research has garnered significant attention, with over 10,400 citations. For his contributions, he has been listed among the top 2% of cited scientists in computer science globally since 2021, received the Vice-Chancellor’s Outstanding Researcher Award in 2021 at NTU, and won several best paper awards in leading conferences. Mahmud's research focuses on developing safe and trustworthy AI systems for mission-critical areas, such as healthcare, education, secure communication, etc.  Dr Mahmud has secured research grants totalling approximately £4 million in these areas from prestigious funders like the European Union and the British Council.
He is also a dedicated educator, having taught courses on big data, data analysis, machine learning, and neural signal processing at various universities. Furthermore, Mahmud has supervised over 60 researchers and students at the postdoctoral, doctoral, postgraduate, and graduate levels, contributing to the development of the next generation of researchers.
Dr Mahmud regularly serves as an international expert in reviewing grant applications for several international funding bodies, including Horizon Europe (EU), UKRI (UK), MIUR (Italy), HFSP (France), SNSF (Switzerland), DFG (Germany), RCN (Norway), NWO (Netherlands), KFAS (Kuwait), and NIE and A*Star (Singapore). He is a Fellow of the Higher Education Academy (HEA), a Senior Member of the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE), and a Senior Member of the Association for Computing Machinery (ACM). Dr Mahmud also served as the Chair of the intelligent system application technical committee of the IEEE Computational Intelligence Society (CIS), member of the IEEE CIS task force on intelligence systems for health, member of the IEEE Region 8 humanitarian activities subcommittee, secretary of the IEEE UK and Ireland CIS chapter, publications chair of the IEEE UK and Ireland Industry Applications chapter, project liaison officer of the IEEE UK and Ireland special interest group on humanitarian technologies, social media and communication officer of the British Computer Society's Nottingham and Derby chapter, and an active contributor and member of several IEEE standard development teams including Unified Terminology for Brain-Computer Interfaces (P2731), Clinical IoT Data and Device Interoperability with TIPPSS (P2933), Reporting Standards for In Vivo Neural Interface Research (P2794), and Open Mobile Health Standards (P1752).
Dr Mahmud is a Section Editor (Big Data Analytics) of the Cognitive Computation journal, Regional Editor (Europe) of the Brain Informatics journal and Associate Editor (neuroprosthetics) of the Frontiers in Neuroscience journal. He also actively contributes to organising conferences. Examples include being the General Chair of the 31st International Conference on Neural Information Processing (ICONIP2024) in Auckland, New Zealand, the General Chair of the 13th/14th/15th International Conference on Brain Informatics (BI), the founding General Chair of the International Conference on Applied Intelligence and Informatics (AII) conference series since 2021, the International Conference on Trends in Electronics and Health Informatics (TEHI) conference series, the Symposium Chair of the IEEE Symposium in Computational Intelligence in Healthcare and e-Health (IEEE CICARE) since 2016, the coordinator of the Local Organising Committee Chair of the IEEE World Congress on Computational Intelligence (IEEE WCCI) 2020.
Dr. Mufti's research interests include: Cognitive Computing, AI in Healthcare, Brain Informatics, and Responsible AI.
Bldg. 22
22-109
+966 (0)13 860 3512
mufti.mahmud@kfupm.edu.sa
https://muftimahmud.info/